Hello everyone and welcome to the solution of the unique characters in a string.
So the problem statement was if you were given a string determine if it's comprised of all unique characters
.
So for instance the string A B C D E would be true because it has all unique characters.
All right.
So we're going to show two possible solutions one using a built in data structure and a built in function
and another using a built in data structure.
But creating our own lookup method to check if the characters are unique.
So the first one which is basically a simple one liner uses advantage to Python an advantage of the
set data state or a data structure that say your base is just going to say return and we're going to
say it the length of the set of the string is equal to the length
of the string itself.
Then we know it has all unique characters.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
ABC.
So we know that's true.
And if we add another a we get false.
So that makes sense since we're basically taking the set.
So that's grabbing everything that's unique.
Check the length of it and if that's equal to the length the original string then you know you had all
unique characters.
So in an interview setting usually for these type of solutions you want to make your interviewer aware
that you're able to do it and you know about it but you also want to manually do as much as possible
.
So let's go ahead and again use a builtin data type set but then use our own lookup method.
So I call this unique care to the postering.
So we're going to do is create a set called S.H. A are standing for characters and say sets.
So I'm going to say for let's see her letter basically in S in that stream if the LeT is in characters
and let me go ahead and rename this plural so we know it's going to be more than one there.
So what is in characters return false.
Else we're just going to add it to the sets down a little bit there at LTT.
So if it never returns false throughout that statement then we know we can just return true.
Since all the characters were unique.
All right let's go ahead and walk through this one more time.
So we have our set here.
Characters and there we're going through out every element basically every letter in that string and
seeing if that letter was in the set then return false.
Else add the letter to that set.
Now what this basically doing is essentially the same thing as checking if it already exists in the
set.
So I imagine we're going along for the simple example.
All the letters A B C D E wouldn't trigger this if statement.
Instead they would just be added to that set.
But on this final letter A.
It would have been already in that character set.
So to return false.
If this never gets triggered then we know all the characters are unique.
And we can just return true right.
So hopefully both of the solutions make sense to you.
Again make sure you do them manually on pen and paper or practice on a white board when coding them
out and that's it.
You can go ahead and check out the solution note book case you want more notes on this but that's essentially
all there is to this problem.
We might see it again in the mock interview section.
So just a heads up.
OK everyone.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture